# Getting started

1. Git clone the repo locally. IE using SSH:
> git clone git@github.com:FreddieHoy/THE-freds-coding-test.git

2. Move into repo. 
> cd the-freds-coding-test/
 
3. install `node_modules`
> npm install

4. Start FE locally. 
>npm run start

---

See Fred's Notes below task outline!

# Times Higher Education take home test

At Time Higher Education our aim is give the best insights we can into higher education for both students and academics. In this test, we'd like to give you a taste of that and give you the opportunity to show us how you could improve this

In this repository we've given you some autogenerated dummy data about some higher education institutions and example submission data. What we would like you to do is take this data and do something interesting with it; there are some suggestions below to inspire you but feel free to use your imagination.

The aim is to have something to show us what interests you technically, and have something concrete to talk about in the later technical interview. There are no hard and fast rules but there some guidelines as to what we're expecting:

 - Ideally spend between 1 to 2 hours on the problem; you can spend a little more if you want but we don't want this to be a chore or an exercise of how much you can achieve in a time limit. We'd rather have one solid interesting technical point to talk about than a very wide but shallow app.
 - Based on the time constraints, it's better to think small and complete and have ideas of what/how you'd do something bigger. Part of the technical interview will be looking at the limitations of what you did and talking through what you'd do if had more time.
 - We would like to see some code/scripts of what you've done; ideally we'd prefer it in JS/Typescript but any reasonably modern language is fine.
 - Likewise we're not expecting something production ready, but it should reflect how you approach the problem normally rather than something you'd throw away afterwards.

# Files

There are two files, `institutions.json` and `submissions.json`; an institution is a university or other higher education body, and a submission is some data they told us about themselves for a particular year. There is a foreign key from submission to institution and broadly speaking the fields are fairly self explanatory. N.B. this data is auto generated so there may not be obvious trends and numbers may not add up to produce totals you'd expect.

# Suggestions
Here are a list of some examples of things you could do with the data; feel free to use one of these but also feel free to try something else if you feel inspired.

Look at the data and see how it could be enhanced or what insights could be gained from it:
 - Produce a list of the best institutions to study a particular subject
 - Enhance the data by adding some new data e.g. adding how many [Covid-19 cases](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) there have been per country/institution (N.B. as our dataset names are made up, feel free to amend them to show it working)

Show us how you could setup a service to manage this sort of data:
 - Create an API that would be able to serve the data to a frontend to render
 - Setup storage mechanism to store the data and allow for adding new data (rather than using static JSON files)

Display and interact the data:
 - Display some submission data per institution for each year in either a table or chart
 - Show a list of subjects and which institutions you can study them at

---
# Fred's Notes

### Ideas for data. 
Want to look at something actually useful - I would want to know. User Centric.

> At Time Higher Education our aim is give the best insights we can into higher education for both students and academics. 

Best insight for a student:
- Given there chosen subject. Which are the best universities to study that subject? top 5 maybe? How have they changed over the years. (incline or decline)
- Given there subject interest what are similar subjects that they might be interested in? 

Insight for Universities
- Choose a subject. Find all the Universities that have studies that subject. See how their student rating for that subject have changed over time. 


### Notes

A submission is really an institution history data.

Are there subject dates missing in some years? Yes.

Going to Create a FE for interaction.

Using material ui because it looks great and is very quick to set up. 

3 submission points have the same ID! I've just manually changed to have separate ids.


### MVP Plan.

Student Selects a subject. 
- Filter all institution that do that subject. If there were many institution just take top 10 etc..
- Order by student_rating (total students)
- But give history and for indication of incline / decline / steady (graph maybe?) For academic_papers, students_total, student_rating. 


# Reflection at the end of the test.
I've done what I do best which is take some complex data on the FE side of things and make into something useable information. Sorting ordering etc in data.ts. 

What would of been a better approach would be to process this data into a DB. Then I can do things like create a subject entity. Use SQL to order and sort etc. Which is what it is made for.

### Good points
- I've sorted the data on the FE side in the best way to AVOID 10000000 loops. IE use an object/Record.

- I've created something almost useful. The user can look at the rating trends themselves.

- I've created a relatively nice ui for the user. Which would be a good start point for an app. Given more time. I would look at:
    1. Creating more of a visual representation of how things have changed over time for these universities.
    2. Adding an indication of trend. (Has the rating/funding etc gone up over the last 5 years).

### Bad points
- I have gone a bit broad. I've worked on making a useful app but the sorting filtering etc of data logic should live on the BE side. Then I've created a nice but limited FE. 
  
- The Data could be cleaner. Each institution in the final array has submissions with not just the chosen subject on it. With many more subjects the BE would be sending a lot of unnecessary data!

- There is definitely room for a deeper dive into the set up of material ui. Learning more about theming etc and adding slight adjustments to built components using sx prop didn't look amazing.

- My commits should of been smaller.  


### Overall 

Really enjoyed this task! Felt like it could be something that adds value which is nice. Think with so much to play with here I think I got a little overwhelmed and just wanted to build a whole app straight away.